Verminator post (#75)
hm-aemy/hm-aemy.github.io: _posts/2026-07-03-verminator-framework.md

---
layout: post
title: "Verminator: Automating Fault-Injection Campaigns with Verilator"
author: Jonathan Schröter
date: 2026-07-03
---
In our previous post [Update on Fault-Injection with Verilator]({% post_url 2025-11-21-verilator-extension %}) we introduced our extension to Verilator that adds native _hook-insertion_: DPI-hooks that let external C/C++ code observe and modify signals during a simulation, which in turn enables fault-injection without manual HDL modifications.

> This initial post an concept was updated during further development and analysis. The implemented updates are explained in our followup post (Fault-Injection with Verilator: Update on the DPI-Hook Extension)[% post_url 2026-07-03-verilator-extension-update %].

Reviewer: Missing a word around "an"

> This initial post an concept was updated during further development and analysis. The implemented updates are explained in our followup post (Fault-Injection with Verilator: Update on the DPI-Hook Extension)[% post_url 2026-07-03-verilator-extension-update %].

Reviewer: You should mention what this post is about early, perhaps before this sentence. Something like "This post describes the fault injection framework Verminator which uses the Verilator DPI-Hook extension..."

The developed extension answers the question of _how_ a single fault reaches a single signal.

> It does not, by itself, answer the questions that come up the moment you want to study a design seriously: which signals do I fault, with which fault models, over which time windows, and how do I run hundreds of such experiments without hand-editing configuration files and rebuilding the simulator for every one of them?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It does not, by itself, answer the questions that comes up the moment you want to study a design seriously: to which signals do I inject a fault, with which fault models, over which time windows, and how do I run hundreds of such experiments without hand-editing configuration files and rebuilding the simulator for every one of them?
```

Reviewer: Other than that comment, I really like that sentence!

- `sim_main.cpp` — the simulation driver. It contains a compact static table of all runs and dispatches on a `--run N` argument, so the _same_ binary can execute any run in the campaign.

**Step 3 — Hooked build.** Verminator invokes Verilator once, with the fault-injection extension enabled, to compile the design together with the generated `.vlt` and `.cpp` files into a single instrumented `V<top>` binary. Building once rather than once-per-fault is a deliberate design choice: compilation is by far the most expensive step, and a campaign of hundreds of runs would be dominated by it otherwise.

**Step 4 — Campaign execution.** Verminator first runs the binary in golden mode to capture a fault-free reference, then launches the fault runs in parallel — each run is a separate process invoking the shared binary with its own `--run` index. Every run writes its waveform and a small timing record into its own directory. Finally, the per-run timings are aggregated into `perf_summary.csv`.

### Two concepts that make it scale: effects and runs

The heart of Verminator is a deliberate separation between _what a fault is_ and _when it is applied_.

> A **fault effect** is a unique `(signal path, fault_type, time_windows)` triple. Each effect becomes exactly one `switch`-case in the generated `faultModel.cpp` and receives a globally unique id. Crucially, effects are **deduplicated**: if the same signal is faulted the same way both as a standalone target and as part of a combination, it maps to the same case id and the same generated code. The fault _behaviour_ is defined once.

Reviewer: > Crucially, effects are **deduplicated**: if the same signal is faulted the same way both as a standalone target and as part of a combination, it maps to the same case id and the same generated code. The fault _behaviour_ is defined once.

I may be misunderstanding something here, but is it not possible for a fault in isolation to not cause issues, but for that fault to cause problems if it is combined with another fault? Does deduplication take that into account?

Author: I think the part is formulated poorly. The deduplication is not relevant for the Fault Injection runs. So the example you are making that one fault in isolation is not resulting into an issue but paired with another fault is taken into account. I reformulated the part and I hope it makes it more clear now.
